# HangOut
This is my submission for devcom recruitment phase3 selesction. This is a chat app named "Hangout" where friends can hangout.
This app requires internet access to operate, no offline capabilities have been added to it. I will just explain the basiclayout for you. The user needs to signup to this app to get started , you can signup via email or phone. I have not added email verification but phone authentication has been added. The mobile number you are accessing to create a account will be verfied via an otp valid for 60 secs. After logging in one can see four fragments: chats,groups,friends,requests. the first fragment is a list of your friends and by clicking on it you can send or recieve text/image/pdf/MS WORD docs. the pdf and MS word docs can be downloaded to see them. The groups fragment is basically a sort of broadcast where everyone can see/recieve messages irrespective of being in the group. The friend fragment shows you a list of your friends with green marks adjacent if they are online. The app also shows you the last seen of your friends. From the requests fragment one can see the recieved/sent requests and by clicking on it repond to it accordingly. 
The dropdown menu which is visible allows you to create group, logout, edit your account settings(profile picture and status) and find fiends which is basically a list of all the users using the app when ones clicks on any user they can see their profile and send message request as well if they are interested to message them. Any of the existing friends can unfriend each other if they want.

little bug left to cure despite of knowing the cause and weakness ue to time constraints:
The "Find Friends" list does not show profile picture . I actually made a root in database named "Images" while i thought it was "images" hence i designed the whole app accordingly. I found this out later so i corrected for all the other places but this particular could not be done. i think the reason behind this is taht it takes image via "Contacts" class which uses "images" i couldnot change this at the end moment cause the app would have crashed and it was not possible to check the use of class at every place.

PROBLEMS FACED:

i was stuck for long with the image problem. The image did not show up and the biggest mistake i did was i did not check back then but in the end. So, when i googled about it i found out about various problems that the url could do. So, i thought it's just the arrow (reference) that's going in wrong direction else its good. so, i kept on debugging and googling. But there's a good thing i did, just to maintain uniformity i was switching accounts everytime to check when i was making changes in the code. and after a long time of hitting my head, i realised that the "images" root which has supposed to contain url of profile images was having differen urls: some did have that column despite i tried to change profile picture, while some had "com...." while some had "https:firebase....." and the name of the root itself wa "Images", note "Images" and not "images". Boom! i was sad and happy at the same time sad coz this "Images" was a big pain and happy coz finally i actually knew how to mend it .

i faced a issue also while chatting; the sender could successfully send the message but the reciever did not recieve it. Since reciever and sender have same procedure the pain was due to some some visible/invisible pain . i tried a lot  of changes and after $ hours of working on it i came to the comclusion that everything was good with it. Then, the only other place that was included in this task was the mighty database. when i analysed it i realised the reciever messages went inside "Messages" folder which was inside the main "Messages" root which was supposed to take care of all the messages and the problem i had spent hours on got solved in minutes.

Conclusion:
All i realised with this was _- there is no better teacher than debugging -_ 
I worked on things in a better way, analysed them more. Though they make you cry but in the end whwn it's done, the satisfaction is pious. hehe..Bye
